>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm
talking about facade pattern.
So what do you know about it?
Well, that it kind of
helps clean things up.
More importantly is the facade pattern,
if we go into the project component here.
This component knows
quite a bit about ngrx.
Which is okay,
it definitely doesn't offend me.
But still the implementation
details of what's
happening is right there in the component.
And so, what a facade pattern does
is it just takes those details,
and especially if you're dealing
with more than one reducer and
piece of state and creates a facade
where all of that sits behind it.
And so now, your component instead of
directly communicating to ngrx is that,
it communicates to the facade,
which then delegates out.
And one of the unfortunate side
effects of not using a facade is,
you can see that I'm
having to pull pieces out.
As I'm like, okay, well, we have these
actions and these different things and
expose them so that I can consume
them across my application.
Whereas with the facade this
allows us to keep those details
hidden away, and
we're not having to do this perse.
But we're able to export
a single facade and
it will take care of that for you.
And so let's build this out and
see what this looks like.
So this is a very simple concept
in the sense that we're going
to just basically create a service
that's going to expose certain
properties that we can then consume and
certain methods as well.
So I've created just a snippet
here to kind of get us started.
This is pretty small but nonetheless.
Then we'll go into projects facade and
I'm going to paste this in.
And so what we'll do is we'll separate
this refactor out into two parts.
So you have commands and you have queries.
So we'll do the queries first and
then we'll do the demands.
So in the facade we're going to take,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: These right here.
And so, essentially,
we're just lifting this,
shifting it and
dropping it into our facade.
So here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're going to,
as well,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just copy these and
so we're very closely going to mirror
what we're doing in our component.
So let's create our constructor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then within our constructor.
So just kinda picking this up and
moving this over.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And I'll actually
leave customers alone for now,
that's not important.
So constructor,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we'll go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll just make
sure that our imports are correct.
There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we check,
make sure nothing is totally crazy.
I think we're good.
And so now what we can do is instead of
in our project component reaching out and
getting the store.
Instead we can just import the facade and
this is going to be the ProjectsFacade.
Let me make sure that imported correctly,
of course not.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm pretty certain
that we're exporting this correctly.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ProjectsFacde from
lib/state/projects/projectFacde.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Back
into our component
and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
instead of pulling this from the store,
we're going to, and
also you can see here it's
like doing store.select and
then it's actually calling in a selector.
Now what we can do is
just go facade.projects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
facade.currentProjects.
And so the query piece of
this has been tucked away.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's save this,
make sure that this is building
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think I took
the store off too early.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm gonna save this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Refresh,
make sure that thing that's
coming through correctly.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Project's data,
very good.
Let's go back here and double check.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke:
Facade.currentProjects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Leave this for
just a moment.
Let's go ahead and do the command portion.
So wherever you see any
kind of a dispatch,
we're going to create a method
around that to handle that.
So in the component,
if we look here we have the projects.
So we'll just move this over.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
so this is going to be,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just a lot of,
we'll just pick this up.
Move this over here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
once we get this completed,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'll
talk about a very specific use case
where this has come in incredibly handy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Take project,
take in project,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or rather, create.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll pick
this one up, and move this over.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think this is,
right here.
All right, so
then we can go back into our component,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke:
this.facade.getProjects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we'll do SelectProject.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then
back into our component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Rather, project.id.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then from here,
same thing facade.selectProject(null).
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then we can remove the store.
And so if we look at this, we're starting
to see a lot of these imports collapse.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
whereas we had a whole stack of ngrx
stuff,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That all of that is
now tucked under the ProjectFacade.
And if we go through,
we just know that these things
are happening inside of the facade,
but we don't know what.
And so we're just even creating just
another layer of abstraction here so
that the underlying implementation is
no longer a concern of the component.
So again, moving to very,
very thin components.
This is, in my opinion, even for
a container component,
about as thin as it can get.